# Maternal Gut Microbiota Reflecting Poor Diet Quality Predicts Spontaneous Preterm Birth in a Prospective Cohort Study 
A processed, Western diet, high in fat and low in fiber is associated with differences in the gut microbiota and adverse health outcomes in humans; however, little is known about the diet-microbiota relationship and its impact on pregnancy. Spontaneous preterm birth (SPTB), a pregnancy outcome with serious short-and long-term consequences, occurs more frequently in Black and in obese women in the U.S. 
In a prospective, case-control sample matched for race and obesity (cases=16, controls=32), we compared the fecal gut microbiota, fecal and plasma metabolites, and diet in the late second trimester. We hypothesized that a Western diet would be associated with reduced microbiota richness and a metabolic signature predicting incidence of SPTB. 
The fecal microbiota was characterized by 16S-tagged sequencing and untargeted metabolomics was used to analyze both plasma and fecal metabolites. The Wilcoxon rank-sum test was used for the comparison of microbiota genera, α-diversity, fecal and plasma metabolites, and dietary variables between term and SPTB. Beta-diversity was analyzed using PERMANOVA, and metabolite associations were assessed by module analysis. 
A decrease in alpha-diversity was strongly associated with the development of SPTB, especially in the taxonomic class of Betaproteobacteria. Of 824 fecal metabolites, 22 metabolites (mostly lipids) differed between cases and controls (p<0.01), with greater DHA and EPA in cases (FDR<0.2). The most significant fecal metabolite module (FDR adjusted p = 0.008) was dominated by DHA and EPA. Dietary saturated fat (primarily palmitate) intake was greater in cases (31.38±7.37 vs 26.08±8.62, p=0.045) and was positively correlated with fecal DHA and EPA (p<0.05). 
Reduced alpha-diversity of the gut microbiota and higher excretion of omega-3 fatty acids in stool may provide a novel biomarker signature predicting SPTB in women with a low-fiber, high-fat diet. Further investigation of these markers in a larger sample is needed for validation.  
